if you want to understand the inflation
in the United States you must understand
the deflation in China you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
I'm going to explain everything you need
to know which will give you a much
better understanding of what's going on
in the United States but we're going to
take the view from China it's going to
be an interesting one let's begin right
here you're seeing the news all right
inflation is coming down central banks
are getting to work and they have
increased interest rates to to the point
in which inflation has been destroyed we
can almost declare victory at least
that's what they say so let's take a
look here China is the only major
economy dealing with deflation I will
say right off the bat the one thing that
I've been thinking of over the last four
years now has been that China is doing
something very very different okay and
this is an approach that other countries
basically could not for to do and we'll
get into this here and then I'll explain
China has been grappling with negative
consumer prices for several months no
other major world economy faces
deflation their deflation problem comes
Aid a property Market meltdown extreme
bearishness and weak consumer confidence
you see they have a major real estate
crisis going on you've got big big
companies like everr and Country Garden
that are essentially failing and with
that real estate being being the most
valuable asset in the world what was it
$62 trillion worth now on The Chopping
Block well certainly there's an issue
here so that's deflation the prices are
coming down but were the prices
Justified to begin with and this is what
we have to start to understand whether
it comes in the form of food energy
houses stocks everything eventually
comes to a halt and then
the investors will decide what the price
of that asset is just because your
neighbor sold for a million doll two
years ago doesn't mean you can get a
million tomorrow it's what somebody is
willing to pay for it that day how do we
know this if you look at nfts if you
look at all these things that are I was
seeing articles I was being told in the
comments I was told off many times by
people saying that you want to own
digital real estate next to Snoop Dog
because that is something that is so
sought after so fantastic oh but now in
the rearview me yeah yeah we no we don't
like those nft things so it's funny the
way this works okay uh but there's
always another excuse so we have to
understand here what this asset is
actually worth and the market decides
that at this given time they're dealing
with deflation but let me tell you in
terms of consumers that's not a problem
for the consumer deflation is fantastic
this is a good thing where the whole
world right now is building up and
burning from inflation China is dealing
with deflation yes it's painful
deflation is not you know without pain
but no if the real estate prices are
getting lower the stock prices have
become lower and other prices of stuff
becoming lower that just gives more
opportunities after a certain point it's
not a bad thing when you look at it
overall like you zoom out 10 years if
the whole world is going to start
printing money pretty soon and China has
done very little of that who do you
think is going to be in this incinerator
of flames for inflation you know aspects
when you when you're doing this QE and
all this you know garbage that's been
going on well what do you
think China is going to be well
positioned if don't start as well all
right now we don't know what's going to
happen but I can tell you up until
now they that purple line there that is
China's assets so that's the central
bank's assets and yes certainly they've
gone up but just look at it from that
peak of the spike in 2015 okay it's been
very minimally I mean compared to the
other central banks going going up
during that same period like right at
that same moment
you look at that dark blue line that's
ACB and they went from a rate of like
almost two trillion this is uh in
dollars right to 10 from two to 10
whereas China basically didn't
increase and so that tells you the
different stories that are going on
right now where China is saying we're
going to try this we're going to try a
little bit of that we're not going to go
crazy though we're not going to go wild
this though they even shut down the
whole economy for three years or two
years at least so just understand what
had happened throughout this period in
2020 the whole world started to print
money they started doing everything they
could the central banks were being so
active all these things
right in China they didn't do much they
did a little bit here and there but to
the degree of like Europe and and the
United States and so on not even close
in fact Canada when you look at compared
to the GDP did even more than the United
States so what did China do well they
said our economy as long as we could
still ship stuff out that was a
challenge as long as we could remain
functional we're going to have so many
exports it's not even funny and all
throughout 2020 the demand was insane oh
we need PPE we need you know hand
sanitizers and China China China make
all this stuff they couldn't get it out
fast enough so they were still moving in
that sense yeah local economy shut down
there's a problem there but overall they
could keep things going because they
were exporting so they didn't need to
print as much they didn't need to act in
the way that the rest of the world just
kind of sitting on a t like that they
were still producing raw materials were
be converted into consumer goods they
were shipped out and that shows us that
it's two very different worlds now that
deflation as I've said could be positive
if the prices are going higher higher
higher higher high especially with real
estate it becomes so
speculative and then at some point a
bubble needs to be popped and when that
happens it's good yes people are hurt in
that that's a fact but if we can get
things back down to reality or at least
close to it then we find people that are
willing to okay I'm willing to take a
risk on this I'm willing to put some
money in and we'll let it go but you
know when when the things happen they're
just never going down you you run into a
very big crisis eventually and perhaps
that's what happened to China with ever
Grand we were hearing all kinds of
schemes and things that were going on
the world is in for another China shock
so in addition to what I'm telling you
about 2020 check this out China is
flooding foreign markets with cheap
Goods again this time it isn't buying
much in return you see the consumers in
China by the way Apple didn't look so
healthy because the market for their
iPhones in China had decreased
significantly and so that's a big market
and if they Chinese you know buyers are
going to buy Huawei or
whatever well then that's not so good
for companies like apple because they
lose the potential of you know millions
and millions of sales in the late 19 90s
and early 2000s the US and the global
economy experienced a China shock a boom
in Imports of cheap Chinese made Goods
that helped keep inflation low but at
the cost of local manufacturing jobs a
sequel might be might be in the making
as Beijing doubles down on exports to
revive the country's growth its
factories are turning out more cars
machinery and consumer electronics than
its domestic economy can
absorb of course right they go on to the
more details and what I would say about
this is that anytime you need some Goods
let me tell you China China can make it
what they're doing with electric
vehicles is funny because other
countries are trying to I we don't want
China's Vehicles here we don't want
China's Vehicles here because they know
they could produce them for cheaper and
you know you could say what you want but
uh they're going to be able to produce
it for cheaper and they're going to get
it out to the market and other countries
are going to say well we got to worry
about this and we got to worry about
that and China's just going to produce
producer produce they're not so
concerned about regulations and all
these things they're just making things
happen so you could say you know what
you want about that but know that they
are willing to produce Goods they're not
going to stop that and know that they
want to get their manufacturing
continuing and they are now expanding
into other markets or growing those uh
in particular what we've seen is Saudi
Arabia United Arab Emirates which are
small in in the grand scheme with things
but have grown a lot just over the last
few years um you could see here China's
plan to reshape World Trade on its own
terms um I found this chart to be
interesting you could see China has free
trade agreement with countries and
territories accounting for almost 40% of
its exports China exports in 12 months
ending in October 2023 so just look at
over the last year basically uh you know
Hong Kong being on top of the list not
surprising and other countries in Asia
Japan South Korea Vietnam Malaysia
Singapore and so on but what's
interesting here to to to know is that
these are also countries that you know
they're friendly with the United States
right so it's not as if it's like one
side versus the other countries love to
buy from China why because are you
willing to and by the way down here is
the UAE and Saudi Arabia as you can see
not massive but but certainly has grown
okay so you got to know this they are
willing to produce Goods at cheap prices
are you willing to pay twice the cost
for your goods I manufacture products
okay and I have looked at all different
countries to manufacture products and if
you need something that's plastic
injection molded you look around just
look around look at the different cost
and you will see that there is you know
varying cost depending on quality and so
on but it's not even a question and you
want certain I need to produce 500 units
500 units in the US 500 units in Canada
did you mean 500,000 units no no thank
you so just trying to get
reasonably smaller amounts like we're
not talking Drop Shipping here we're not
talking about one unit at a time being
sent overseas I'm talking about you know
500 a th000 2,000 us and and Canadian
manufacturers they don't want to do that
they don't even want to do that so you
cannot get something as a small business
you cannot get something
manufactured in your own country I mean
that's the world that we live in now
that has to change but you can't I mean
these these manufacturers got to open up
they got to do smaller runs they have to
be willing to do this or nothing is
going to change in this respect this is
talking about the global debt is that a
record as you can expect a taking time
bomb for the world economy and so what
we have here is death whether it's in
China whether it's in the United States
that is continuously increasing with
interest rates being this high that is
also an additional problem and how are
they going to get out of this mess how
are all these countries going to get out
of it well they can't grow most of these
countries they there's no growth there
look at Europe as an example there is no
growth left and so they have to print
and so they have to paper over top of it
and that's when you have serious reper
cussions it's unfortunate but this is
the direction we are all seeming to be
going this is the interest rate
associated with all that just think
central bank interest rates for the most
part they had been heading up a lot of
them have kind of sto their increases
maybe they're going to cut but it's
still very high and that puts it burden
on those debt holders whether it's the
national debt whether it's corporate
debt whether it's individual all of
these people look who it is the majority
of it the Western World who is in way
too much debt yes ever Grand's got some
serious problems Country Garden got some
serious problems there's no doubt about
that but of course when you look at it
individually the average person is just
saturated in that that needs to change
or we are not going to have resolution
to our issues so be very careful be
mindful of what's Happening Here in
front of you and you've got to be able
to diversify your Holdings be mindful of
where your cash is and the companies if
you invest in companies if you're
dealing with a business maybe the
business you work for or you own how
much exposure do you have the debt how
much exposure do you have to countries
like China or like others that might
start to have tariffs on it this could
be another problem and have you looked
at your HS or HTS codes if you're a
business that's bringing things in to
your country are they the right codes a
lot of times they're not the WR codes
and you are spending a lot of extra
money I've got all this type of
information in my finance Friday and the
Sunday business class Link in the
description this is where everybody
comes to get the latest and greatest
information I want to thank you for
being here hit that thumbs up button and
don't forget come back tomorrow take
care